
Write up for rasberry pi image:


1 : Install QEMU
$ sudo apt update 
$ sudo apt install qemu-system-arm qemu-kvm libvirt-clients libvirt-daemon-system bridge-utils virtinst libvirt-daemon virt-manager

2 : Download Raspberry PI IMAGE
Download 2022-09-22-raspios-buster-armhf-lite.img.xz from : Website
Direct Download : Download

3 : Download kernel-qemu-4.19.50-buster and versatile-pb-buster.dtb
Link : website

4 : Set up the VM in Virtual Manager
$ sudo virt-manager
Click Create new virtual machine.

STEPS FOR CONFIGURING VIRTUAL MACHINE
Step 1:
Choose Import existing disk image.
Under Architecture Options:
    Select Architechture: armv6l.
    Select Machine Type: versatilepb.
Click Forward.
Step 2:

Under Provide the existing storage path:
    Click Browse.
    Click Browse Local.
    Go to the downloaded OS image location and select the OS Image (.img or .qcow2).
Under Choose the operating system you are installing: select Generic or unknown OS. Usage is not recommended.
Click Forward.

Step 3:
Input Memory: 256.
Input CPU: 1.
Click Forward.


Step 4:
Rename VM 
Toggle Customize configuration before install ON.
Choose Network selection: Virtual network 'default' : NAT.
Click Finish.
Configuration screen:

Go to CPUs tab:
    Select Model: arm1176.
    Click Apply.

Go to Boot Options tab:
    Expand Direct kernel boot.
    Toggle Enable direct kernel boot ON.
    Input or browse Kernel path: /.../kernel-qemu-4.19.50-buster.
    Input or browse DTB path: /.../versatile-pb-buster.dtb.
    Input Kernel args: root=/dev/vda2 panic=1.
    Click Apply.

Go to IDE Disk 1 tab:
    Select Disk Bus: VirtIO.
    Click Apply.

Go to NIC tab:
    Select Device Model: virtio.
    Select Apply.

Click Add Hardware:
    Go to Channel tab.
    Input Name: org.qemu.guest_agent.0
    Select Device Type: UNIX socket (unix).
    Click Finish.

(Optional) Click Add Hardware:
    Go to RNG tab.
    Click Finish.
    Click Begin Installation.

The VM will start and begin installation. Wait for it to finish, you'll be prompted to log in.

5 : Inside VM
Log in with the default credentials Login: pi and Password: raspberry.
Run $ sudo raspi-config to configure the OS (hostname, password, ssh, language, keyboard layout, etc.).
Run $ sudo apt install qemu-guest-agent to install QEMU guest agent and enable host control.

6 : fiNISH 

